# Blackjack
#### Video Demonstration: <https://youtu.be/s8zgWhCRaCM>
#### Description:
For our final project we decided to create a card game which is called blackjack utilizing github’s web based application using flask. Blackjack, also known as 21, is a card game, very common in casinos, where players compete against the dealer. The goal is to get a higher score than the dealer without going over 21.
Coding a blackjack game requires understanding thoroughly conditionals and the concept of else-if also known as elif. In this sense, blackjack entangles multiple rules and conditionals that had to be considered when coding the game. For instance, if the player or the dealer has more than 21 it’s a bust and the game has to be restarted. In addition, as the game starts, the player is prompted with many options, like hit, to receive another card, stand, to stay with the cards he has, double the chips and receive another card or even split if the player receives two cards with the same value. Faced with multiple possibilities and conditionals we decided to sacrifice authenticity and only go with the essentials “hit” and “stand” for the sake of this project.
A regular card deck is filled with figures like the jack, king, queen,  etc. The first step and challenge was to create an authentic card deck. A card deck is a combination of values and “suits” so the player could get 5 of diamonds, for instance. The list of values was created according to the rules of blackjack, so a jack has to be equal to 10 and an ace has to be equal to 11. The suits were defined following the standards: diamonds, clubs, spades and hearts.
Randomizing the cards or “shuffling” was a major feature that had to be working smoothly so the game could function properly. After the card deck was defined, a function was created to “deal”  a random card from the deck. After the card is dealt it is removed from the deck so it’s not dealt again. 
A game of blackjack starts with 2 cards dealt for the player and one card for the dealer, which means that we had to define these conditions after the button “Start Game” was pressed. After the cards are dealt, the player is then prompted with a hit or stand button. If a player presses hit he receives another card. If the sum of his cards is greater than 21 the game is over and the dealer wins, otherwise he has the option to hit again or stand. When the player opts for standing, the dealer will reveal his second card. The dealer must stop drawing cards at 17 so If the total value of his hand is less than 17 he will draw another card.
To determine wins, losses and draws on the occasion of a player standing, some conditionals had to be defined. If the dealer has more than 21 or a lower score than the dealer the player wins. If a player has a lower score than the dealer it will result in a loss. Consequently, all the other results will lead to a draw, because the player and the dealer will have the same score.
In any game it is always welcomed to include decorations and extra graphic details, however, in order to establish a healthy line of code and avoid errors we decided to keep things simple. Nonetheless, our main goal was to translate the cards into a real image. Within our file we included a list of “cards” with multiple svg files categorized with a standard pattern, like “8_of_hearts.svg”. Each file pulls up an image from their designated card. The function that defines the deck is linked to this file so that when a card is dealt, the right image is pulled up. Furthermore, the idea was to also include decorations like a fancy background to resemble a real blackjack table or even some features to enhance user experience, for instance, a score counter so that the player doesn't have to count his cards by himself. Unfortunately, we decided to leave these “extras" for a future improvement in the game. 
